# Alzheimer's disease datasets
Three datasets of Alzheimer's disease Sequence Read Archive (SRA) data for Nixon Laboratory; abstracts included.

#### Alteration of the microRNA network during the progression of Alzheimer’s disease
> We report the high-throughput profiling of microRNAs (miRNAs) from the prefrontal cortex of controls, early and late-stages Alzheimer's disease subjects. We show miRNA expression changes between the two groups and down-regulation of miR-132-3p in the late-stages group. Overall design: Deep-sequencing of microiRNAs in 6 controls/early-stages and 6 late-stages Alzheimer's disease patients[^1]

#### Single-cell whole genome sequencing of brain cells of Alzheimer’s disease patients
> We used single-cell whole genome sequencing (scWGS) to assess aneuploidy in isolated neurons from the frontal cortex individuals with mild AD (Braak stage III) and individuals with advanced AD (Braak stage VI)[^2]

#### Single-nucleus chromatin accessibility and transcriptomic characterization of Alzheimer's Disease 
> The gene-regulatory landscape of the brain is highly dynamic in health and disease, coordinating a menagerie of biological processes across¬ distinct cell-types. Here, we present a multi-omic single-nucleus study of 191,890 nuclei in late-stage Alzheimer’s Disease (AD), accessible through our intuitive web portal, profiling chromatin accessibility and gene expression in the same biological samples and uncovering vast cellular heterogeneity. We identified cell-type specific, disease-associated candidate cis-regulatory elements and their candidate target genes, including an oligodendrocyte-associated regulatory module containing links to APOE and CLU. We describe cis-regulatory relationships in specific cell-types at AD risk loci defined by genome wide association studies (GWAS), demonstrating the utility of this multi-omic single-nucleus approach. Trajectory analysis of glial populations identified disease-relevant transcription factors, like SREBF1 and their regulatory targets. Further, we introduce scWGCNA, a co-expression network analysis strategy robust to the sparsity of single-cell data, to perform a systems-level meta-analysis of AD transcriptomics. Overall design: A multi-omics analysis of Alzheimer's Disease in human postmortem brain tissue using single-nucleus ATAC-seq and RNA-seq (bulk and single-nucleus)[^3]
 
 
[^1]: KUL-VIB. Homo sapiens, Alteration of the microRNA network during the progression of Alzheimer’s disease. 2013/07. In: BioProject [Internet]. Bethesda, MD: National Library of Medicine (US), National Center for Biotechnology Information; 2011-. Available from: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/bioproject/PRJNA210613. NCBI:BioProject: PRJNA210613.
[^2]: European Research Institute for the Biology of Ageing (ERIBA), University of Groningen, UMC Groningen, the Netherlands. Single-cell whole genome sequencing of brain cells of Alzheimer’s disease patients. 2016/04. In: BioProject [Internet]. Bethesda, MD: National Library of Medicine (US), National Center for Biotechnology Information; 2011-. Available from: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/bioproject/PRJEB13739. NCBI:BioProject: PRJEB13739.
[^3]: Neurobiology and Behavior, University of California Irvine. Single-nucleus chromatin accessibility and transcriptomic characterization of Alzheimer’s Disease. 2021/05. In: BioProject [Internet]. Bethesda, MD: National Library of Medicine (US), National Center for Biotechnology Information; 2011-. Available from: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/bioproject/PRJNA729525. NCBI:BioProject: PRJNA729525.